
RESEARCH TEAM NEWSLETTER
  

INSIDE THIS ISSUE 

NEWS AND VIDEOS 
RESEARCH SPOTLIGHT 
TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES 
PUBLICATIONS 
UPCOMING CONFERENCES 
FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES 
JOURNAL SPOTLIGHT 
OCTOBER 2025 
  
NEWS AND VIDEOS 

Simultaneous integrated boost (SIB) Radiotherapy Improves PFS Without Increasing Toxicity In Patients With Cervical Cancer, Research Finds

Risk Model Accurately Identified Women At Risk Of Heart Failure Or Cardiomyopathy After Breast Cancer Treatment, Study Shows

Researchers Identify Factors That Can Be Used To Better Predict Breast Cancer Risk Among Women

Study Highlights Global Increase In Cancer Among Adults Of All Ages

New artificial intelligence-based biomarkers offer early insight into treatment response

Use Of Pembrolizumab Before And After Surgery Reduced Risk Of Death By 26% Compared With Placebo For Patients With Early-Stage NSCLC, Data Indicate

Preventing Cancer Recurrence with Novel Antibody–Drug Conjugates

Research Finds EBRT With Focal Boost Achieves Sustained Benefit On biochemical disease-free survival In Patients With Intermediate- And High-Risk Prostate Cancer

Adjuvant Chemoradiotherapy Improved Survival Outcomes Vs Pelvic Radiotherapy Alone In Patients With High-Risk Endometrial Cancer, Data Indicate 

New Approach to Prostate Cancer Treatment

Use Of Hair Straighteners And Chemical Relaxers May Be Linked To Increased Risk Of Certain Non-Reproductive Cancers, Research Indicates

Videos: ESMO 2025: Prostate highlights
Dr María Natalia Gandur Quiroga gives her pick of the key prostate cancer abstracts from ESMO 2025.
RESEARCH SPOTLIGHT 

At ESMO 2025 prostate conference 
Dr Maria underscores a paradigm shift, from a one-size fits all therapy to molecularly informed, combinatorial, individually tailored management of prostate cancer
 
Ekpo L, Fasanmade O, Alabi A, Ajose A, Aina-Tolofari FA, Fatiregun O, Asuzu C. The implementation of a psycho-oncology program at a cancer centre in Lagos, Nigeria. Annals of Oncology Research and Therapy. 2026 Jan 1;6(1):49-57

Sub-Saharan Africa suffers from a severe shortage of psychiatrists, psychologists, and social workers making it difficult to provide adequate social and psychological support to cancer patients. This scarcity is often compounded with stigma associated with mental health, which further discourages individuals from seeking help. Establishing a psycho-oncology program at the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority–Lagos University Teaching Hospital Cancer Center was an essential step in providing comprehensive cancer care tailored to the needs of cancer patients in West Africa.
The center developed a psychotherapeutic care delivery model based on the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for treating psychological and psychiatric disorders and the proposed model from the National Cancer Control Program for providing psychosocial care in hospitals and communities for cancer patients and their families.
Patients showing normal to mild distress (< 4) are provided psychological support by the primary care team (the oncologists and oncology nurses). Patients with a distress score of≥ 4 on the distress thermometer during any visit to the oncologist are directed to the appropriate supportive service (mental health, social work, counseling, or chaplaincy professionals) based on the identified issue.
This article reports on the successful implementation of a pilot psycho-oncology program in a Sub-Saharan cancer center. Psycho-oncology care of people diagnosed and living with cancer is an important requirement for providing comprehensive cancer care. Future research will evaluate the program’s effectiveness and explore the factors contributing to distress among cancer patients in Nigeria and targeted interventions to enhance their overall well-being. We anticipate our research will add important novel information to the body of knowledge and stimulate more studies on psycho-oncology in the region, especially in underrepresented groups.
TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES 

Essentials of Statistical Analysis Modules
Deadline: January 5, 2026

PUBLICATIONS 
 Atobiloye MA, Ojetunde AO, Aina-Tolofari F, Suneja G, Joseph A. Acute Radiotherapy-Related Side Effects in Cervical Cancer Patients: A 12-Month Retrospective Study from a Cancer Center in Sub-Saharan Africa. International Journal of Radiation Oncology, Biology, Physics. 2025 Sep 1;123(1):e412.

Kibudde S, Joseph AO, Mallum A, Ngoma TA, Ajose A, Lugina E, Kisukari JD, Adeneye S, Mkhize T, Alabi A, El Hamamsi I. Hypofractionated Radiotherapy for Prostate Cancer: Preliminary Results from the HypoAfrica Study. International Journal of Radiation Oncology, Biology, Physics. 2025 Sep 1;123(1):S188.

Ola, I. O., Okunowo, A. A., & Habeebu, M. Y. (2025). Mortality risk stratification based on comorbidity status among cervical cancer patients in Lagos, Nigeria. International Health, 17(5), 669-677

Olatunji TA, Akinbami OT, Sowunmi A, Fatiregun OA, Okedairo BM, Idowu T, Ige-Olatunji OO, Balogun BO, Ogunsanwo OT, Adebiyi O, Odogwu V. Profile of Triple Negative Breast Cancer: A Retrospective Review. Nigerian Medical Journal. 2025 Sep 19;66(3):1127-34

Alabi A, Lawal A, Fatiregun O, Falowo T, Adegboyega B, Joseph A, Sowunmi A, Bamodu OA, Shirima S, Conserve DF. Screening for Distress Among Metastatic Breast Cancer Patients: Implementation and Validation of the NCCN Distress Thermometer in Southwest Nigeria.


UPCOMING CONFERENCES 

AORTIC Conference 2025 2nd - 5th November 2025

World Cancer Leaders' Summit 2025 18th – 20th November 2025

Society for Neuro-Oncology’s 30th Annual Meeting 19th – 23rd November 2025

FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES 
  
1.Title:  Young Investigator Award Special Competitions
Funding Agency: ASCO 
Details:  The Young Investigator Award (YIA) provides funding to promising investigators to encourage and promote quality research in clinical oncology.
Deadline: 29th January 2026 
Level of funding: $50,000.
  
JOURNAL SPOTLIGHT 



Supportive Care in Cancer presents the most recent scientific and clinical practice information on all aspects of supportive care in cancer patients. It covers the physical, psychosocial and spiritual aspects of the patient’s journey from diagnosis through to end-of-life care, with a focus on interventions to mitigate symptoms and side effects.

 
To collaborate with us (External Research Application/Observership/Internship), please utilize the submission form link below: 
External Research Application Form   | Observership/Internship Form 
  
Check out Research Funding Opportunities at NLCC Research Unit RFO Database 
  
Please direct any questions or enquiries to the Research Unit, at research@nlcc.ng 

	
RESEARCH TEAM,
Medserve-LUTH CANCER CENTRE,
Lagos, Nigeria.
 
	


research@nlcc.ng - www.nhdic.ng
Luth, Idi Araba
              

 

 

	 
		

